Hadoop 1-

	Hadoop is an open-source framework that was created to make it easier to work with big data. It is developed by Apache and it is based on the Java environment.
	
Hadoop 1 Architecture-
	It works as a master-slave system.
	Master- Only one System with better Configuration.
	Slaves- Comodity Hardwares.

Major components-
	1. HDFS- HDFS is a Hadoop Distributed FileSystem, where our BigData is stored using Commodity Hardware. It is designed to work with Large DataSets with default block size is 64MB.
	Data in a Hadoop cluster is broken down into smaller units (called blocks) and distributed throughout the cluster.
	Each block is duplicated twice (for a total of three copies), with the two replicas stored on two nodes in a rack somewhere else in the cluster. 
	Since the data has a default replication factor of three, it is highly available and fault-tolerant. If a copy is lost HDFS will automatically re-replicate it elsewhere in the cluster, ensuring that the threefold replication factor is maintained.
	
	2. MapReduce- It is a Distributed Data Processing Model.
	It does three operations: map an input data set into a collection of pairs, shuffle the resulting data (transfer data to the reducers), then reduce over all pairs with the same key.

Daemons- Processes running in background that are generally java processes.There are 5 daemons-

	HDFS daemons- *Name Node(NN)
		      *Secondary Name Node(SNN)
		      *Data Node(DN)
	MapReduce daemons- *Job Tracker(JT)
			   *Task Tracker(TT)

Some of these run on Master node while some on Slave nodes.
On Master node-
	1. Name Node- It used to store Meta Data about Data Nodes like How many blocks are stored in Data Nodes, Which Data Nodes have data, Slave Node Details.
	2. Secondary Name Node- It is used for recovery of data using fsimage(complete snapshot of the file system’s metadata) and edit logs(modifications or changes).
	3. Job Tracker- Job Tracker is used to assign MapReduce Tasks to Task Trackers in the Cluster of Nodes like Job scheduling,Job monitoring and Resource alocation.

On Slave node- 
	1. Data Node- It is used to store our Actual Data. It stores data in Data Slots of size 64MB by default.
	2. Task Tracker- It executes the Tasks which are assigned by Job Tracker and sends the status of those tasks to Job Tracker.

Drawbacks of Hadoop 1- 
	* Single point of failure.
	* Max No. of nodes=4,000.(NN limitations)
	* Max No. of concurrent tasks=40,000.(JT limitations)
	* No automatic takeover from SNN.
	* Slots: Static allocation of tasks.

So to overcome these drawbacks Hadoop 2 was launched.
