Hadoop 2-

 	To overcome the drawbacks of Hadoop 1.0, Hadoop 2.0 the next generation was developed with increased speed of data processing by introduction of YARN, which separates procesasevsing management from resource management and better HDFS.

 Major Components-
 	1. HDFS v2
 	2. YARN(Yet Another Resource Negotiator)
 	3. MapReduce

 YARN- 
 	In this job scheduling and resource allocation is divided into separate daemons
 	YARN consists of 2 components-
 	1. Resource Manager (one per cluster)- Resource Manager is again divided into two components-
 		a)Scheduler(Pre Application Manager)- It allocates resource to Application.
 		b)Application Manager- Tracks the work of App Masters in slave nodes.

 	2. Node Managers-
 		*It manages the life-cycle of the Container.
 		*It monitores each Container’s Resources utilization.
                It is  divided in two components:-

a) Container-
 	Container is a portion of Memory in HDFS (Either Name Node or Data Node).
 	In Hadoop 2, Container replaced Data Slots in Hadoop 1.
        It is dynamic. 

b) Application Master (one per application)- 
 		*It interacts with both Resource Manager’s Scheduler and Node Manager.
 		*It interacts with Scheduler to acquire required resources.
 		*It interacts with Node Manager to execute assigned tasks and monitor those
                 task’s status.
 Architecture- 

 	It has Master Slave Node like Architecture which works on Map-Reduce
 	One Master Node has two components-
 		*Resource Manager
 		*Name Node
 	In Hadoop 2, some more Nodes acts as Master Nodes. Each this 2nd level Master Node has 3 components:
 		*Node Manager 
 		*Application Master
 		*Data Node 
          In Hadoop 2.0 there is a backup for both Active Name Node(Passive Name Node) and 
          Resource Manager.
 Features-

 	1. App Master sends heart-beat to App Manager ,so when app master fails than app 
           manager launches the new restoring the progress. 
 	2. HDFS Federation provides horizontal scalability of Name Nodes.
 	3. if Active Name Node fails than Passive Name Node is in action.
 	4. Scalable up to 10000 nodes per cluster and 100000 concurrent tasks.


Failures-
          1.It can only give max 4 try when task fails in app master.
          2.Container is resource (CPU, RAM, Hard disk) so if it fails than fault occurs.
          3.in Node manager failure if task is complete but job is incomplete then whole is
            relaunched.





