Spark is a open source cluster computing framework.
Open source means it source code is avaliable for everyone ,anyone can edit it and use it .
Cluster means: A group of computer are used.
Computing:Means processing or calculation.


Why Spark come :
1)Batch processing: Hadoop work on batch processing but spark work on near
real time processing.
2)In the hadoop a lot of input and output operation are performed which make procesing slow.
on the other hand in spark only one time input ,output processing is done ,than every work is done in the memory.


Spark use the concept of RDD:Resilient Distributed Datasets.
Resilient means reliable i.e every file is stored in the form of small blocks 128MB in the data node.
due t the replication factor the same block is stored in different data node.
So if one data node is crased than due to the copy of the data the RDD willbe restored .
Distributed:Every file is distributed in the form of 128MB block in whichn different data not work.
RDD is immutable i.e. if we can edit the RDD.

Spark Context: it is like the main function of the java program, without it not a single processing is done .
Sc resides in the master.

Spark Ecosystem:It consist of Spark core :here the RDD is stored or formed.
Sprak SQL ,Spark streaming,Spark MILIB,SPARKX graph,sparkr various program work on spark core.I didn't know the function of these tools.

Features od Spark:
1)100 times faster:Due to processinf in the memory the processing is fast .
2)Poligot:It enable user to program in various language it support various language.
3)Lazy evaluation:Without the action command the data is not stored in the ram .
even the bolck will formed for differnt step but the data is not in the ram.
ML lib:Bcs og MI library and real time processing the program of MI will executed very fast so MI is easy here.
4)Easy to handle and run.



DAG: Distributed acyclic graph:IT is the graph which represent several command or several step is depend on each other.

Fault Tolerance : It is capacity to handle the fault. 
we can protect our data bcs og fault toleranc.

