VIRTUALISATION

Virtualisation is a concept which is used to reduce the complexity in computing.
For example:
On a computer hardware there is an operating system through which various applications are stored.
Now, on the hardware if we plot a hyperwiser(a kind of operating system) then on this harsware various operating systems can be plotted.
Thus, two operating systems can be used on the same computer /system.(example-linux and windows)



SERVER

* If there is a space of of 32 gb on our system and we require only 4 gb then there will be wwstqge of the rest 28 gb . So to save the memory we can distribute the rest 28 gb among different servers 
  Thus, we can now save memory . But, now there will be a problem of security as one server can try to hack the data of other server or so.
  This problem is resolved in Type I os virtualisation concept which is fast, secure, and reliable.




SNAPSHOTS

If something goes wrong at a paryicular step then we can go back to previous step if we have taken snapshots until that step.



FEATURES OF GIT 

Distributed
Compatible
Fast in speed
Open source
Non-linear
Security (SHA-256 Encrypting Algorithm)



GIT COMMANDS

1) git add
   adds the file to the specific folder

2) git status
   tells the current status

3) git checkout and git branch
   used to make new branch 

Similarly, there are many more git commands like git commit,git push origin --,etc.




   
PWD-Present Working Directory


cd.. -returns to parent directory



TERMINAL COMMANDS

apropos delete 
apropos remove
whatis
whoami
cat
alias 
tar



LINUX

Invented by Linus Torauld in 1994
Free
Open Source
Distribution-ubuntu,trustX,red hat,Kali(hackiing)
Capitalisation



* To install any app we can type:
  sudo apt install (name of the app)



*To interrupt ongoing process:
 press ctrl+z (forceful stop)
 press ctrl+c (normal stop)




*ctrl+d - end of file



* if config:
  tells ip address




APT- Advanced Packaged Tool




; - To use two commands in one line





Windows - zip file
Similarly in Linux there is tar-cvf file and tar xvf file.

